It is when you are going to provide a brief overview about Arduino.
I do not intend to provide a comprehensive introduction to Arduino.
There are a lot of documentations that says I'm going to talk about Arduino.
I will present this technology just to give a flavor for those who are new to the Arduino systems.
So what is going on.
Basically it's an open source electronic platform.
It is one of the most popular electronic platforms used for prototyping and both the hardware and the
software is very very easy to use.
You will see later on when I want to present some examples either what I'm going to present the audience
on the board also how to develop applications for you know you'll see it's really quite simple to use.
So if you don't know Arduino and you want to learn about this technology is going to be very simple.
All you need to do is to prove she's a kid which is not expensive.
So with $50 to $100 you can get like a starter kit to start working with Arduino and making a few prototypes
and systems basically performs the operation first.
They kind of the different types of inputs through their analog and digital input ports like for example
they can leave a light sensor a fingerprint a temperature sensor a gas sensor any kind of sense of information
and also they are able to write outputs.
So the app is as well.
For example you can activate a motor you can turn on or turned off an LCD or send messages etc..
So the C programming language is used to develop programs for argue you know.
And basically we use a specific Arduino ID for developing Arduino programs which already comes with
several predefined libraries for different types of sensors actuators and different functionalities
and Abdula systems are used in different types of application for example for making prototypes systems
or Internet of Things devices and platforms or robotics embedded systems.
And in a few so white out you know is popular.
There are several reasons behind this.
So first of all it is very cheap.
As I already mentioned you can get a starter kit for less than $50 and even the sensors are very cheap
like around five to 10 15 dollars per sensor.
So it's really very easy to get into devices and connecting them and developing different types of prototypes.
Also another advantage it is also a cross platform and this means that the software development framework.
It can be run on different operating systems namely Windows Mac OS Linux operating system.
It has also a very simple and easy programming environment.
You will see later on with a we can make some it's very simple and very intuitive to understand how
to develop programs in C Arduino.
In addition Arduino has a very large database of open source extensible software and hardware that is
contributed by experience with programming.
So for example if you want to develop any Arduino program or any kind of device or most likely you can
find a lot of code available on the Internet and in most cases you don't need to write the code from
scratch so you can find a lot of existing code that you can use and integrated into your application.
Even the hardware is open source and Arduino boards are published under a Creative Commons license so
a designer can make their own version of them what you extend it or improve it on their own.
There are several types of Arduino boards.
So this is the least that you can find on the Abdeen website and basically in our case we are going
to use the Arduino.
So there are so many for example for different levels on three levels in terms of features.
Internet of things education wearable.
So this is a basic set for entry level.
We're going to use some examples on our own.
Basically the differences here is in terms of microcontrollers or the amount of memory available.
So it depends on your requirements you may choose one board or the other.
Some answers are application may be more adapted for one want than the other.
So in principle when you want to start in a project you need to carefully choose your Arduino work.
But for 11 foreseeable prototyping basically the add on is the most popular platform that is actually
used by beginners.
There are some other boards with enhanced features for example it has much more memory up to 256.
So if you are interested to know more details about any of these platform you can go to shit and provides
all the specification for arguing about some other boards are also built for Internet of Things application
for example argue that it has an Ethernet port available which allows the board to communicate with
the Internet through a local area network Arduino industrial.
There is also a GSM board and other boards that allow us to communicate through Wi-Fi.
So basically this I would glad Farnham's they have different types of communication interfaces allowing
them to connect to the network and communicate with other devices.
So when you use Arsinoe board you need to use also some other sensors and there are many types of different
answers.
For example you can have body weight for attitude measurement temperature sensors buzzers the sound
sensors and sensors.
There is also different types of gas sensors for air quality monitoring ultrasonic sensor for range
measurement obstacle of lighting sensors color sensors button sensors buzzers So these sensors can be
easily integrated and connected to the Arduino work on specific pin numbers and then using the Arduino
Id eat.
It is possible to read the information coming from the sensors and then perform required processing
based on the application logic in our demonstration.
Later on I'm going to show you how to work with and ultrasonics answer to as the middle aged woman obstacle.
I will show how to connect the sensor how to develop an Arduino program to read the information coming
from the sensor and then how to use it or sell it in order to connect.
This will test any sensor to Ross eco system that is running on a computer.